After the rain, we often see such a beautiful phenomenon in the sky as a rainbow. However, not everyone knows why this attractive spectacle appears in the form of an arc of colorful shining stripes. In fact, for the emergence of a rainbow, there is a very reasonable explanation. Knowing the relevant theory, one can give a simple and competent explanation for the formation of a rainbow, after which the contemplated natural phenomenon will cease to be incomprehensible to the observer.

The fact is that after a rain, fog clots form in the air atmosphere. And when the clouds dissipate, and the sun begins to shine again, the sun’s rays fall on the formed foggy mass. As a result, sunlight is reflected and then decomposed into individual colors. The process of light decomposition is performed by a physical phenomenon such as the dispersion of light, when, during the reflection of light, the white color of the light flux splits into several different colors.

The result of such a decomposition is the appearance of a rainbow, the stripes of which are reflected sunlight that has been decomposed into light spectra of different colors. In addition to fog clots, the reflection of sunlight can also occur from falling raindrops. In this case, the light is also decomposed into separate colors, which leads to the appearance of a rainbow. Under such conditions, the rainbow phenomenon becomes prominent in the background of raining rain, which also happens quite often.

Thus, a rainbow in the sky appears as a result of the reflection of the sun’s rays from raindrops or clots of mist. The resulting rainbow phenomenon includes bands of red, orange, yellow, green, blue, blue and purple. At the same time, the resulting rainbow can be represented both as a single color band (primary rainbow) and as two rainbow bands, between which there is a certain interval (secondary rainbow). In the case of a secondary rainbow, in the inner circumference of one rainbow strip, there is another strip, which has a brighter appearance than the outer rainbow.